So that's latitude and longitude. They form the basis for geographic data. Understanding the underpinnings of the coordinate system is key to understanding the higher abstractions.

OK, so now we can stick a point on an Earth's surface. What other shapes can we make?

Well there are **lines** which, for example, [could describe a main throughfare in Gainesville, FL](resources/data/line1.geojson).

The map is generated from a **GeoJSON** file, which is a simple and human-readable format for describing geographic shapes. We will get into GeoJSON and other file formats in a bit, but it's something you will run into a lot in web mapping. It's based off of Javascript, so it's easily used by online mapping libraries. The crux of it looks something like this:

    "geometry": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
          [
            -82.35703468322754,
            29.65206913032053
          ],
          [
            -82.33935356140137,
            29.65210642570846
          ]
        ]
    }

You can see it's made of two main parts: The geometry type (in this case, a "LineString"), and the coordinates. Because we know the geometry in question is a line, and there are two points, our mapping library or geospatial database undertands that this is a line going from the first coordinate to the second -- from one part of University Ave in Gainesville, FL to another.
        
Combining coordinates together into geometries makes for powerful information. While the line example above is rather simple, the U.S. government publishes giant files known as [TIGER/Line](http://www.census.gov/geo/maps-data/data/tiger-line.html), which map every road in the United States.

When you connect lines together you can make other shapes, like triangles:


[triangle]

And rectangles:

[rectangle]


you can even chain together polygons to create multipolygons, which can string together multiple shapes into a single object, like the Hawaiian islands:

[hawaii]



